# Adventure Quest Kids

Adventure Quest Kids is a Flutter application for a choose
your own adventure style storytelling experience for kids.

## Features

* `ParticleField` widget: Used for particle animations
* Internationalization/localization support. The entire application defaults to English,
  but is also localized to French
* YAML-based story data. Every story is entirely described by a YAML file. The images, speech
  and other support files are referenced by the YAML
    * Images were created by DALL-E
    * Story text and structure were created by ChatGPT
    * Speech files were generated by Microsoft ClipChamp
* User-settings
    * Very simple implementation of the memento pattern (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memento_pattern) to save and load user settings both now, and after possible structural changes in the future
* Strong routing and navigation system. Child-proof. Kids can easily navigate around the application
* Unique system to help kids follow along while each page is read out loud
    * Animation that highlights the current word on the story page as it is read
    * Tooling system to generate timestamp files so the application knows which word to highlight at any moment
* Lots of interactivity and engaging animations
    * Badges on the front page that have a unique animation - with each badge "bouncing" independently at different rates
    * Story page images have an icon animation triggered when the user taps the image
    * Story pages are read interactively when the user taps the "play" button
* Unit tests:
    * A test to ensure that every page in every story is reachable
    * A test to check the audio timestamp files, and ensure there is a timestamp for each word on each page (including localized versions)
    * A test to check each page for layout overflows even if the screen is very small (320 x 480)
* Tooling written in NodeJS
    * `audioTimestampRecorder`: Plays an audio file containing speech for a page. User taps any key to record a timestamp for each word
    * `convertWavToMp3`: Compresses .wav files to .mp3 files (to reduce final bundle sizes)
    * `resizeimages`: Dall-E images are created at 1024x1024 pixel size. This script resizes a directory of images down to 256x256 size to reduce final bundle sizes
    * `trimMp3File`: Some free audio files on the internet are minutes long when the application really only needs a few seconds of the audio track. This script extracts those few seconds and saves them to a new .mp3
    * `yamlAdventureNavigator`: Tool to traverse a story in depth-first-search fashion. Logs the path that it takes. Useful to give a path to exhaustively check all pages in a story when testing and debugging.
    * `yamlModifier`: Used to add a new YAML property to every page in a story


## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/adventure_quest_kids.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```
    cd adventure_quest_kids
    ```

3. Install dependencies:
    ```
    flutter pub get
    ```

4. Run the app:
    ```
    flutter run
    ```

## Google Ads Setup

This application uses Google Mobile Ads. To set up the ads, you need to add your Google Ads Application ID to the `gradle.properties` file in the `android` directory.

1. Open the `android/gradle.properties` file.

2. Add a new property with your Google Ads Application ID:

```properties
google_ads_app_id="your-google-ads-app-id"
```
Replace `your-google-ads-app-id` with your actual Google Ads Application ID.

3. Save and close the gradle.properties file.

Now, the Google Ads Application ID will be injected into the `AndroidManifest.xml` file at build time. Make sure to set the `google_ads_app_id` property on every machine where you build the app.

Next, you need to set up your banner ad unit IDs. These IDs should be added to the `.env.debug` and `.env.release` files in the root of your project.

1. Open the `.env.debug` file.

2. Add a new property with your debug banner (usually one of the Google AdMob test ad unit ids) ad unit ID:

```
BANNER_AD_UNIT_ID="your-debug-banner-ad-unit-id"
```

Replace your-debug-banner-ad-unit-id with your actual debug banner ad unit ID.

3. Open the `.env.release` file.

4. Add a new property with your release banner ad unit ID:

```
BANNER_AD_UNIT_ID="your-release-banner-ad-unit-id"
```

Replace `your-release-banner-ad-unit-id` with your actual release banner ad unit ID.

5. Save and close the `.env.debug` and `.env.release` files.

Now, the banner ad unit IDs will be loaded from the .env files, and you can use different IDs for debug and release builds.

Note: The `gradle.properties` file and the `.env` files are included in the `.gitignore` file, so they won't be committed to your repository. This keeps your Google Ads Application ID and banner ad unit IDs out of your public repository.

## License

This source code is made available for reading and reference purposes only. You may not use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of this software without explicit permission from the author.

**All Rights Reserved**

## Contact

Aaron Lovi - aaronlovi@gmail.com

## Project Link

https://github.com/aaronlovi/adventure_quest_kids
